---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@rushstack/ts-command-line](./ts-command-line.md) &gt; [CommandLineParameter](./ts-command-line.commandlineparameter.md) &gt; [environmentVariable](./ts-command-line.commandlineparameter.environmentvariable.md)

## CommandLineParameter.environmentVariable property

The name of an environment variable that the parameter value will be read from, if it was omitted from the command-line. An error will be reported if the environment value cannot be parsed.

<b>Signature:</b>

```typescript
readonly environmentVariable: string | undefined;
```

## Remarks

The environment variable name must consist only of upper-case letters, numbers, and underscores. It may not start with a number.

This feature cannot be used when [IBaseCommandLineDefinition.required](./ts-command-line.ibasecommandlinedefinition.required.md) is true, because in that case the environmentVariable would never be used.

Syntax notes for environment variable values:

- Choice Parameter: The value must match one of the defined choices, otherwise a validation error is reported. An empty string causes the environment variable to be ignored.

- Flag Parameter: The value must be `1` for true, or `0` for false, otherwise a validation error is reported. An empty string causes the environment variable to be ignored.

- Integer Parameter: The value must be an integer number, otherwise a validation error is reported. An empty string causes the environment variable to be ignored.

- String Parameter: Any value is accepted, including an empty string.

- String List Parameter: If the string starts with `[` (ignoring whitespace) then it will be parsed as a JSON array, whose elements must be strings, numbers, or boolean values. If the string does not start with `[` , then it behaves like an ordinary String Parameter: Any value is accepted, including an empty string.

