---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@microsoft/api-extractor](./api-extractor.md) &gt; [ConsoleMessageId](./api-extractor.consolemessageid.md)

## ConsoleMessageId enum

Unique identifiers for console messages reported by API Extractor.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare enum ConsoleMessageId 
```

## Enumeration Members

<table><thead><tr><th>

Member


</th><th>

Value


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

ApiReportCopied


</td><td>

`"console-api-report-copied"`


</td><td>

"You have changed the public API signature for this project. Updating \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

ApiReportCreated


</td><td>

`"console-api-report-created"`


</td><td>

"The API report file was missing, so a new file was created. Please add this file to Git: \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

ApiReportDiff


</td><td>

`"console-api-report-diff"`


</td><td>

Changes to the API report: \_\_\_


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

ApiReportFolderMissing


</td><td>

`"console-api-report-folder-missing"`


</td><td>

"Unable to create the API report file. Please make sure the target folder exists: \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

ApiReportNotCopied


</td><td>

`"console-api-report-not-copied"`


</td><td>

"You have changed the public API signature for this project. Please copy the file \_\_\_ to \_\_\_, or perform a local build (which does this automatically). See the Git repo documentation for more info."

OR

"The API report file is missing. Please copy the file \_\_\_ to \_\_\_, or perform a local build (which does this automatically). See the Git repo documentation for more info."


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

ApiReportUnchanged


</td><td>

`"console-api-report-unchanged"`


</td><td>

"The API report is up to date: \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

CompilerVersionNotice


</td><td>

`"console-compiler-version-notice"`


</td><td>

"The target project appears to use TypeScript \_\_\_ which is newer than the bundled compiler engine; consider upgrading API Extractor."


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

Diagnostics


</td><td>

`"console-diagnostics"`


</td><td>

Used for the information printed when the "--diagnostics" flag is enabled.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

FoundTSDocMetadata


</td><td>

`"console-found-tsdoc-metadata"`


</td><td>

"Found metadata in \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

Preamble


</td><td>

`"console-preamble"`


</td><td>

"Analysis will use the bundled TypeScript version \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

UsingCustomTSDocConfig


</td><td>

`"console-using-custom-tsdoc-config"`


</td><td>

"Using custom TSDoc config from \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

WritingApiReport


</td><td>

`"console-writing-api-report"`


</td><td>

"Generating \_\_\_ API report: \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

WritingDocModelFile


</td><td>

`"console-writing-doc-model-file"`


</td><td>

"Writing: \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

WritingDtsRollup


</td><td>

`"console-writing-dts-rollup"`


</td><td>

"Writing package typings: \_\_\_"


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Remarks

These strings are possible values for the [ExtractorMessage.messageId](./api-extractor.extractormessage.messageid.md) property when the `ExtractorMessage.category` is [ExtractorMessageCategory.Console](./api-extractor.extractormessagecategory.md)<></>.

