---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@rushstack/node-core-library](./node-core-library.md) &gt; [SubprocessTerminator](./node-core-library.subprocessterminator.md)

## SubprocessTerminator class

> This API is provided as a beta preview for developers and may change based on feedback that we receive. Do not use this API in a production environment.
> 

When a child process is created, registering it with the SubprocessTerminator will ensure that the child gets terminated when the current process terminates.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class SubprocessTerminator 
```

## Remarks

This works by hooking the current process's events for SIGTERM/SIGINT/exit, and ensuring the child process gets terminated in those cases.

SubprocessTerminator doesn't do anything on Windows, since by default Windows automatically terminates child processes when their parent is terminated.

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[RECOMMENDED\_OPTIONS](./node-core-library.subprocessterminator.recommended_options.md)


</td><td>

`static`

`readonly`


</td><td>

[ISubprocessOptions](./node-core-library.isubprocessoptions.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** The recommended options when creating a child process.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[killProcessTree(subprocess, subprocessOptions)](./node-core-library.subprocessterminator.killprocesstree.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Terminate the child process and all of its children.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[killProcessTreeOnExit(subprocess, subprocessOptions)](./node-core-library.subprocessterminator.killprocesstreeonexit.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Registers a child process so that it will be terminated automatically if the current process is terminated.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

