---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@rushstack/package-deps-hash](./package-deps-hash.md)

## package-deps-hash package

This package builds a JSON object containing the git hashes of all files used to produce a given NPM package. The [Rush](https://rushjs.io/) tool uses this library to implement incremental build detection.

## Remarks

For more info, please see the package [README](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rushstack/package-deps-hash)<></>.

## Functions

<table><thead><tr><th>

Function


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[ensureGitMinimumVersion(gitPath)](./package-deps-hash.ensuregitminimumversion.md)


</td><td>

Checks the git version and throws an error if it is less than the minimum required version.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getDetailedRepoStateAsync(rootDirectory, additionalRelativePathsToHash, gitPath, filterPath)](./package-deps-hash.getdetailedrepostateasync.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the object hashes for all files in the Git repo, combining the current commit with working tree state. Uses async operations and runs all primary Git calls in parallel.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getGitHashForFiles(filesToHash, packagePath, gitPath)](./package-deps-hash.getgithashforfiles.md)


</td><td>

Takes a list of files and returns the current git hashes for them


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getPackageDeps(packagePath, excludedPaths, gitPath)](./package-deps-hash.getpackagedeps.md)


</td><td>

Builds an object containing hashes for the files under the specified `packagePath` folder.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getRepoChanges(currentWorkingDirectory, revision, gitPath)](./package-deps-hash.getrepochanges.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Find all changed files tracked by Git, their current hashes, and the nature of the change. Only useful if all changes are staged or committed.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getRepoRoot(currentWorkingDirectory, gitPath)](./package-deps-hash.getreporoot.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Finds the root of the current Git repository


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getRepoStateAsync(rootDirectory, additionalRelativePathsToHash, gitPath, filterPath)](./package-deps-hash.getrepostateasync.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the object hashes for all files in the Git repo, combining the current commit with working tree state. Uses async operations and runs all primary Git calls in parallel.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[hashFilesAsync(rootDirectory, filesToHash, gitPath)](./package-deps-hash.hashfilesasync.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Uses `git hash-object` to hash the provided files. Unlike `getGitHashForFiles`<></>, this API is asynchronous, and also allows for the input file paths to be specified as an async iterable.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Interfaces

<table><thead><tr><th>

Interface


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[IDetailedRepoState](./package-deps-hash.idetailedrepostate.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Information about the detailed state of the Git repository.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[IFileDiffStatus](./package-deps-hash.ifilediffstatus.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Information about the changes to a file.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

