---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@microsoft/rush-lib](./rush-lib.md) &gt; [IInputsSnapshot](./rush-lib.iinputssnapshot.md)

## IInputsSnapshot interface

> This API is provided as a beta preview for developers and may change based on feedback that we receive. Do not use this API in a production environment.
> 

Represents a synchronously-queryable in-memory snapshot of the state of the inputs to a Rush repository.

The methods on this interface are idempotent and will return the same result regardless of when they are executed.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export interface IInputsSnapshot 
```

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[hashes](./rush-lib.iinputssnapshot.hashes.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

ReadonlyMap&lt;string, string&gt;


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** The raw hashes of all tracked files in the repository.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[hasUncommittedChanges](./rush-lib.iinputssnapshot.hasuncommittedchanges.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Whether or not the repository has uncommitted changes.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[rootDirectory](./rush-lib.iinputssnapshot.rootdirectory.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** The directory that all paths in `hashes` are relative to.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[getOperationOwnStateHash(project, operationName)](./rush-lib.iinputssnapshot.getoperationownstatehash.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the state hash for the files owned by this operation, including the resolutions of package.json dependencies. This will later be combined with the hash of the command being executed and the final hashes of the operation's dependencies to compute the final hash for the operation.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getTrackedFileHashesForOperation(project, operationName)](./rush-lib.iinputssnapshot.gettrackedfilehashesforoperation.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the map of file paths to Git hashes that will be used to compute the local state hash of the operation. Exposed separately from the final state hash to facilitate detailed change detection.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

