---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@microsoft/rush-lib](./rush-lib.md) &gt; [CobuildConfiguration](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.md)

## CobuildConfiguration class

> This API is provided as a beta preview for developers and may change based on feedback that we receive. Do not use this API in a production environment.
> 

Use this class to load and save the "common/config/rush/cobuild.json" config file. This file provides configuration options for the Rush Cobuild feature.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class CobuildConfiguration 
```

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[cobuildContextId](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.cobuildcontextid.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string \| undefined


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Cobuild context id


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[cobuildFeatureEnabled](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.cobuildfeatureenabled.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Indicates whether the cobuild feature is enabled. Typically it is enabled in the cobuild.json config file.

Note: The orchestrator (or local users) should always have to opt into running with cobuilds by providing a cobuild context id. Even if cobuilds are "enabled" as a feature, they don't actually turn on for that particular build unless the cobuild context id is provided as an non-empty string.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[cobuildLeafProjectLogOnlyAllowed](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.cobuildleafprojectlogonlyallowed.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** If true, Rush will automatically handle the leaf project with build cache "disabled" by writing to the cache in a special "log files only mode". This is useful when you want to use Cobuilds to improve the performance in CI validations and the leaf projects have not enabled cache.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[cobuildRunnerId](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.cobuildrunnerid.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** This is a name of the participating cobuild runner. It can be specified by the environment variable RUSH\_COBUILD\_RUNNER\_ID. If it is not provided, a random id will be generated to identify the runner.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[cobuildWithoutCacheAllowed](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.cobuildwithoutcacheallowed.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** If true, operations can opt into leveraging cobuilds without restoring from the build cache. Operations will need to us the allowCobuildWithoutCache flag to opt into this behavior per phase.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[createLockProviderAsync(terminal)](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.createlockproviderasync.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_**


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[destroyLockProviderAsync()](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.destroylockproviderasync.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_**


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getCobuildConfigFilePath(rushConfiguration)](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.getcobuildconfigfilepath.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_**


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getCobuildLockProvider()](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.getcobuildlockprovider.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_**


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[tryLoadAsync(terminal, rushConfiguration, rushSession)](./rush-lib.cobuildconfiguration.tryloadasync.md)


</td><td>

`static`


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Attempts to load the cobuild.json data from the standard file path `common/config/rush/cobuild.json`<></>. If the file has not been created yet, then undefined is returned.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

