---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@microsoft/rush-lib](./rush-lib.md) &gt; [Subspace](./rush-lib.subspace.md)

## Subspace class

This represents the subspace configurations for a repository, based on the "subspaces.json" configuration file.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class Subspace 
```

## Constructors

<table><thead><tr><th>

Constructor


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[(constructor)(options)](./rush-lib.subspace._constructor_.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Constructs a new instance of the `Subspace` class


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[subspaceName](./rush-lib.subspace.subspacename.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

string


</td><td>


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[contains(project)](./rush-lib.subspace.contains.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns true if the specified project belongs to this subspace.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getCommittedShrinkwrapFilename()](./rush-lib.subspace.getcommittedshrinkwrapfilename.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getCommittedShrinkwrapFilePath(variant)](./rush-lib.subspace.getcommittedshrinkwrapfilepath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the committed shrinkwrap file name for a specific variant.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getCommonVersions(variant)](./rush-lib.subspace.getcommonversions.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the settings from the common-versions.json config file.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getCommonVersionsFilePath(variant)](./rush-lib.subspace.getcommonversionsfilepath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the full path to the common-versions.json config file for this subspace.

Example (subspaces feature enabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\subspaces\my-subspace\common-versions.json` Example (subspaces feature disabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\rush\common-versions.json`


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getPackageJsonInjectedDependenciesHash(variant)](./rush-lib.subspace.getpackagejsoninjecteddependencieshash.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns hash value of injected dependencies in related package.json.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getPnpmCatalogsHash()](./rush-lib.subspace.getpnpmcatalogshash.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Computes a hash of the PNPM catalog definitions for this subspace. Returns undefined if no catalogs are defined.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getPnpmConfigFilePath()](./rush-lib.subspace.getpnpmconfigfilepath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the full path to the pnpm-config.json config file for this subspace.

Example (subspaces feature enabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\subspaces\my-subspace\pnpm-config.json` Example (subspaces feature disabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\rush\pnpm-config.json`


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getPnpmfilePath(variant)](./rush-lib.subspace.getpnpmfilepath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the absolute path for "pnpmfile.js" for a specific subspace.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getPnpmOptions()](./rush-lib.subspace.getpnpmoptions.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns the parsed contents of the pnpm-config.json config file.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getProjects()](./rush-lib.subspace.getprojects.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns the list of projects belonging to this subspace.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getRepoState()](./rush-lib.subspace.getrepostate.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the contents from the repo-state.json file.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getRepoStateFilePath()](./rush-lib.subspace.getrepostatefilepath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the path to the repo-state.json file.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getSubspaceConfigFolderPath()](./rush-lib.subspace.getsubspaceconfigfolderpath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns the full path of the folder containing this subspace's configuration files such as `pnpm-lock.yaml`<></>.

Example (subspaces feature enabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\subspaces\my-subspace` Example (subspaces feature disabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\rush`


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getSubspacePnpmPatchesFolderPath()](./rush-lib.subspace.getsubspacepnpmpatchesfolderpath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns the full path of the folder containing this subspace's configuration files such as `pnpm-lock.yaml`<></>.

Example (subspaces feature enabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\subspaces\my-subspace\pnpm-patches` Example (subspaces feature disabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\pnpm-patches`


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getSubspaceTempFolderPath()](./rush-lib.subspace.getsubspacetempfolderpath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** The full path of the folder where the subspace's node\_modules and other temporary files will be stored.

Example (subspaces feature enabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\temp\subspaces\my-subspace` Example (subspaces feature disabled): `C:\MyRepo\common\temp`


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getTempShrinkwrapFilename()](./rush-lib.subspace.gettempshrinkwrapfilename.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns full path of the temporary shrinkwrap file for a specific subspace and returns the common workspace shrinkwrap if no subspaceName is provided.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getTempShrinkwrapPreinstallFilename(subspaceName)](./rush-lib.subspace.gettempshrinkwrappreinstallfilename.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getTempShrinkwrapPreinstallFilePath()](./rush-lib.subspace.gettempshrinkwrappreinstallfilepath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** The full path of a backup copy of tempShrinkwrapFilename. This backup copy is made before installation begins, and can be compared to determine how the package manager modified tempShrinkwrapFilename.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getVariantDependentSubspaceConfigFolderPath(variant)](./rush-lib.subspace.getvariantdependentsubspaceconfigfolderpath.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Returns the full path of the folder containing this subspace's variant-dependent configuration files such as `pnpm-lock.yaml`<></>.

Example (variants): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\rush\variants\my-variant` Example (variants and subspaces): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\subspaces\my-subspace\variants\my-variant` Example (subspaces): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\subspaces\my-subspace` Example (neither): `C:\MyRepo\common\config\rush`


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[shouldEnsureConsistentVersions(variant)](./rush-lib.subspace.shouldensureconsistentversions.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Gets the ensureConsistentVersions property from the common-versions.json config file, or from the rush.json file if it isn't defined in common-versions.json


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

