---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@microsoft/rush-lib](./rush-lib.md) &gt; [IPhase](./rush-lib.iphase.md)

## IPhase interface

> This API is provided as an alpha preview for developers and may change based on feedback that we receive. Do not use this API in a production environment.
> 

Metadata about a phase.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export interface IPhase 
```

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[allowWarningsOnSuccess](./rush-lib.iphase.allowwarningsonsuccess.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** By default, Rush returns a nonzero exit code if errors or warnings occur during a command. If this option is set to `true`<></>, Rush will return a zero exit code if warnings occur during the execution of this phase.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[associatedParameters](./rush-lib.iphase.associatedparameters.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Set&lt;[CommandLineParameter](./ts-command-line.commandlineparameter.md)<></>&gt;


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** The set of custom command line parameters that are relevant to this phase.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[dependencies](./rush-lib.iphase.dependencies.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

{ self: Set&lt;[IPhase](./rush-lib.iphase.md)<></>&gt;; upstream: Set&lt;[IPhase](./rush-lib.iphase.md)<></>&gt;; }


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** The resolved dependencies of the phase


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[isSynthetic](./rush-lib.iphase.issynthetic.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** If set to `true,` this this phase was generated from a bulk command, and was not explicitly defined in the command-line.json file.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[logFilenameIdentifier](./rush-lib.iphase.logfilenameidentifier.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** This property is used in the name of the filename for the logs generated by this phase. This is a filesystem-safe version of the phase name. For example, a phase with name `_phase:compile` has a `logFilenameIdentifier` of `_phase_compile`<></>.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[missingScriptBehavior](./rush-lib.iphase.missingscriptbehavior.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

[PhaseBehaviorForMissingScript](./rush-lib.iphasebehaviorformissingscript.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** What should happen if the script is not defined in a project's package.json scripts field. Default is "error".


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[name](./rush-lib.iphase.name.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** The name of this phase.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[shellCommand?](./rush-lib.iphase.shellcommand.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** _(Optional)_ (Optional) If the `shellCommand` field is set for a bulk command, Rush will invoke it for each selected project; otherwise, Rush will invoke the package.json `"scripts"` entry matching Rush command/phase name.

This string is the path to a script that will be invoked using the OS shell. The working directory will be the folder that contains rush.json. If custom parameters are associated with this command, their values will be appended to the end of this string.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

