---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@microsoft/rush-lib](./rush-lib.md) &gt; [RushProjectConfiguration](./rush-lib.rushprojectconfiguration.md)

## RushProjectConfiguration class

> This API is provided as an alpha preview for developers and may change based on feedback that we receive. Do not use this API in a production environment.
> 

Use this class to load the "config/rush-project.json" config file.

This file provides project-specific configuration options.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export declare class RushProjectConfiguration 
```

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[disableBuildCacheForProject](./rush-lib.rushprojectconfiguration.disablebuildcacheforproject.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** Disable caching for this project. The project will never be restored from cache. This may be useful if this project affects state outside of its folder.

This option is only used when the build cache is enabled for the repo. You can set disableBuildCacheForProject=true to disable caching for a specific project. This is a useful workaround if that project's build scripts violate the assumptions of the cache, for example by writing files outside the project folder. Where possible, a better solution is to improve the build scripts to be compatible with caching.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[incrementalBuildIgnoredGlobs](./rush-lib.rushprojectconfiguration.incrementalbuildignoredglobs.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

ReadonlyArray&lt;string&gt;


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_** The incremental analyzer can skip Rush commands for projects whose input files have not changed since the last build. Normally, every Git-tracked file under the project folder is assumed to be an input. Set incrementalBuildIgnoredGlobs to ignore specific files, specified as globs relative to the project folder. The list of file globs will be interpreted the same way your .gitignore file is.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[operationSettingsByOperationName](./rush-lib.rushprojectconfiguration.operationsettingsbyoperationname.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

ReadonlyMap&lt;string, Readonly&lt;[IOperationSettings](./rush-lib.ioperationsettings.md)<></>&gt;&gt;


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_**


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[project](./rush-lib.rushprojectconfiguration.project.md)


</td><td>

`readonly`


</td><td>

[RushConfigurationProject](./rush-lib.rushconfigurationproject.md)


</td><td>

**_(ALPHA)_**


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

