---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@rushstack/set-webpack-public-path-plugin](./set-webpack-public-path-plugin.md) &gt; [ISetWebpackPublicPathOptions](./set-webpack-public-path-plugin.isetwebpackpublicpathoptions.md)

## ISetWebpackPublicPathOptions interface

The base options for setting the webpack public path at runtime.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export interface ISetWebpackPublicPathOptions 
```

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[getPostProcessScript?](./set-webpack-public-path-plugin.isetwebpackpublicpathoptions.getpostprocessscript.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(varName: string) =&gt; string


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ A function that returns a snippet of code that manipulates the variable with the name that's specified in the parameter. If this parameter isn't provided, no post-processing code is included. The variable must be modified in-place - the processed value should not be returned.

See the README for more information.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[preferLastFoundScript?](./set-webpack-public-path-plugin.isetwebpackpublicpathoptions.preferlastfoundscript.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

boolean


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ If true, find the last script matching the regexVariable (if it is set). If false, find the first matching script. This can be useful if there are multiple scripts loaded in the DOM that match the regexVariable.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[regexVariable?](./set-webpack-public-path-plugin.isetwebpackpublicpathoptions.regexvariable.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

string


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ Check for a variable with this name on the page and use its value as a regular expression against script paths to the bundle's script. If a value foo is passed into regexVariable, the produced bundle will look for a variable called foo during initialization, and if a foo variable is found, use its value as a regular expression to detect the bundle's script.

See the README for more information.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

