---
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@rushstack/webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin](./webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin.md)

## webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin package

A webpack plugin for generating a list of embedded dependencies. Embedded dependencies are third-party packages which are being bundled into your released code and are often times subject to license, security, and other legal requirements. This plugin aims to make it easier to generate a list of embedded dependencies and their associated metadata, so they can be analyzed by additional tools.

## Remarks

The plugin also includes the ability to generate a secondary asset which contains the license text for each embedded dependency into a single file called THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.html. This is a common legal requirement for large companies deploying commercial services/products containing open source code.

## Classes

<table><thead><tr><th>

Class


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[EmbeddedDependenciesWebpackPlugin](./webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin.embeddeddependencieswebpackplugin.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Webpack plugin that generates a file with the list of embedded dependencies and their licenses.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Interfaces

<table><thead><tr><th>

Interface


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[IEmbeddedDependenciesWebpackPluginOptions](./webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin.iembeddeddependencieswebpackpluginoptions.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Plugin options for EmbeddedDependenciesWebpackPlugin


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[IPackageData](./webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin.ipackagedata.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Data type for a package.json file. This is a superset of the full package.json file and includes additional fields that are generated by the plugin, including licenseSource, licenses, copyright, and author.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Type Aliases

<table><thead><tr><th>

Type Alias


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[LicenseFileGeneratorFunction](./webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin.licensefilegeneratorfunction.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Function type that generates the license file.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[LicenseFileName](./webpack-embedded-dependencies-plugin.licensefilename.md)


</td><td>

**_(BETA)_** Loose string type that represents the name of the generated license file.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

